packages/slonik/README.md, before:

# @dzangolab/fastify-slonik

A [Fastify](https://github.com/fastify/fastify) plugin that provides an easy integration of slonik  in a fastify API.

The plugin is a thin wrapper around the [`fastify-slonik`](https://github.com/spa5k/fastify-slonik) plugin.

The plugin also includes logic to run migrations via [`@dzangolab/postgres-migrations`](https://github.com/dzangolab/postgres-migrations#readme) which is forked from [`postgres-migrations`](https://github.com/thomwright/postgres-migrations#readme).

## Requirements

* [@dzangolab/fastify-config](../config/)
* [slonik](https://github.com/gajus/slonik)

## Installation

Install with npm:

```bash
npm install @dzangolab/fastify-config @dzangolab/fastify-slonik slonik
```

Install with pnpm:

```bash
pnpm add --filter "@scope/project" @dzangolab/fastify-config @dzangolab/fastify-slonik slonik
```

## Usage

Add a `slonik` block to your config:

```typescript
import { parse } from "@dzangolab/fastify-config";
import dotenv from "dotenv";

import type { ApiConfig } from "@dzangolab/fastify-config";

dotenv.config();

const config: ApiConfig = {
  ...
  slonik: {
    db: {
      databaseName: process.env.DB_NAME as string,
      host: process.env.DB_HOST as string,
      password: process.env.DB_PASSWORD as string,
      port: parse(process.env.DB_PORT, 5432) as number,
      username: process.env.DB_USER as string,
    },
    migrations: {
      development: parse(
        process.env.MIGRATIONS_DEVELOPMENT_FOLDER,
        "migrations"
      ) as string,
      production: parse(
        process.env.MIGRATIONS_PRODUCTION_FOLDER,
        "apps/api/build/migrations"
      ) as string,
    },
  },
  ...
};

export default config;
```

Register the plugin with your Fastify instance:

```typescript
import configPlugin from "@dzangolab/fastify-config";
import slonikPlugin, { migrationPlugin } from "@dzangolab/fastify-slonik";
import Fastify from "fastify";

import config from "./config";

import type { ApiConfig } from "@dzangolab/fastify-config";
import type { FastifyInstance } from "fastify";

const start = async () => {
  // Create fastify instance
  const fastify = Fastify({
    logger: config.logger,
  });
  
  // Register fastify-config plugin
  await fastify.register(configPlugin, { config });
  
  // Register fastify-slonik plugin
  await fastify.register(slonikPlugin, config.slonik);
  
  // Run database migrations
  await fastify.register(migrationPlugin, config.slonik);
  
  await fastify.listen({
    port: config.port,
    host: "0.0.0.0",
  });
};

start();
```
**Note: `migrationPlugin` should be registered after all the plugins.**

## Configuration

### `db`


| Attribute  | Type | Description |
|------------|------|-------------|
| `database` | `string` | The name of the database to connect to. |
| `host`     | `string` | The database's host. |
| `password` | `string` | The password for connecting to the database. |
| `port`     | `number` | The database's port. |
| `username` | `string` | The username for connecting to the database. |

### `migrations`

Paths to the migrations files. You can specify 1 path per environment. Currently the only environments supported are: `development` and`production`.

The path must be relative to node.js `process.cwd()`.

### Enabling query logging
To enable query logging, set the `ROARR_LOG` environment variable to `true`:

```bash
ROARR_LOG=true
```
This will log all SQL queries to the console. For more information, refer to the [slonik-interceptor-query-logging](https://www.npmjs.com/package/slonik-interceptor-query-logging).

Commit message:

chore(slonik): make enableQueryLogging configurable

packages/slonik/README.md, after:

# @dzangolab/fastify-slonik

A [Fastify](https://github.com/fastify/fastify) plugin that provides an easy integration of slonik  in a fastify API.

The plugin is a thin wrapper around the [`fastify-slonik`](https://github.com/spa5k/fastify-slonik) plugin.

The plugin also includes logic to run migrations via [`@dzangolab/postgres-migrations`](https://github.com/dzangolab/postgres-migrations#readme) which is forked from [`postgres-migrations`](https://github.com/thomwright/postgres-migrations#readme).

## Requirements

* [@dzangolab/fastify-config](../config/)
* [slonik](https://github.com/gajus/slonik)

## Installation

Install with npm:

```bash
npm install @dzangolab/fastify-config @dzangolab/fastify-slonik slonik
```

Install with pnpm:

```bash
pnpm add --filter "@scope/project" @dzangolab/fastify-config @dzangolab/fastify-slonik slonik
```

## Usage

Add a `slonik` block to your config:

```typescript
import { parse } from "@dzangolab/fastify-config";
import dotenv from "dotenv";

import type { ApiConfig } from "@dzangolab/fastify-config";

dotenv.config();

const config: ApiConfig = {
  ...
  slonik: {
    db: {
      databaseName: process.env.DB_NAME as string,
      host: process.env.DB_HOST as string,
      password: process.env.DB_PASSWORD as string,
      port: parse(process.env.DB_PORT, 5432) as number,
      username: process.env.DB_USER as string,
    },
    migrations: {
      development: parse(
        process.env.MIGRATIONS_DEVELOPMENT_FOLDER,
        "migrations"
      ) as string,
      production: parse(
        process.env.MIGRATIONS_PRODUCTION_FOLDER,
        "apps/api/build/migrations"
      ) as string,
    },
  },
  ...
};

export default config;
```

Register the plugin with your Fastify instance:

```typescript
import configPlugin from "@dzangolab/fastify-config";
import slonikPlugin, { migrationPlugin } from "@dzangolab/fastify-slonik";
import Fastify from "fastify";

import config from "./config";

import type { ApiConfig } from "@dzangolab/fastify-config";
import type { FastifyInstance } from "fastify";

const start = async () => {
  // Create fastify instance
  const fastify = Fastify({
    logger: config.logger,
  });
  
  // Register fastify-config plugin
  await fastify.register(configPlugin, { config });
  
  // Register fastify-slonik plugin
  await fastify.register(slonikPlugin, config.slonik);
  
  // Run database migrations
  await fastify.register(migrationPlugin, config.slonik);
  
  await fastify.listen({
    port: config.port,
    host: "0.0.0.0",
  });
};

start();
```
**Note: `migrationPlugin` should be registered after all the plugins.**

## Configuration

### `db`


| Attribute  | Type | Description |
|------------|------|-------------|
| `database` | `string` | The name of the database to connect to. |
| `host`     | `string` | The database's host. |
| `password` | `string` | The password for connecting to the database. |
| `port`     | `number` | The database's port. |
| `username` | `string` | The username for connecting to the database. |

### `migrations`

Paths to the migrations files. You can specify 1 path per environment. Currently the only environments supported are: `development` and`production`.

The path must be relative to node.js `process.cwd()`.

### Enabling query logging
To enable query logging, set `enableQueryLogging` to true in the slonik options:

```typescript
const config: ApiConfig = {
  ...
  slonik: {
    enableQueryLogging: true,
    ...
  }
};
```

Setting `enableQueryLogging` to `true` adds the [slonik-interceptor-query-logging](https://www.npmjs.com/package/slonik-interceptor-query-logging) interceptor which uses [roarr](https://github.com/gajus/roarr) to output query logs to the console.

To activate the logging output, make sure to set the `ROARR_LOG` environment variable to `true`:

```bash
ROARR_LOG=true
```

**Limitation**: The roarr logger used here is independent of the fastify logger (like pino) and logs directly to the console. Unlike pino, roarr does not natively support logging to files or prettifying the console output.

With this setup, all SQL queries will be logged to the console, making it easier to debug and monitor database interactions.
